---
title: "Understanding Workspaces"
author: "AnVIL"
description: "AnVIL is creating a scalable training program with a focus on researchers and use cases."
---

# Understanding Terra Workspaces

:TODO remove dupe intro

Analysis in Terra is centered around the “workspace”. Terra workspaces typically hold genomic data along with subject-level phenotypic data and are configured with analysis tools such as notebooks and Docker images. Workspaces also hold the output or derived data generated by analyses.

Workspace configuration also controls who can view, clone,  launch, or share a workspace and whose Google Billing Account is charged for any GCP cloud compute costs incurred by workspace.

For a list of open access, fully configured example workspaces demonstrating how to perform a number of genomic analyses see [Using Example Workspaces](/learn/getting-started/using-example-workspaces)

`video: https://youtu.be/ONc1Wf7rEuw`

## Using Terra Workspaces

- [Working with workspaces](https://support.terra.bio/hc/en-us/articles/360024743371-Working-with-workspaces) - Terra workspaces  are dedicated spaces where you and your collaborators can access and organize the same data and tools and run analyses together.

- [Cloning a workspace](https://support.terra.bio/hc/en-us/articles/360026130851-How-to-clone-a-workspace) - "Cloning" a workspace makes another copy of the workspace under your own billing project. Cloning creates a completely independent copy of the workspace in which you are the owner and sole user until you choose to "share" your "clone" with someone else.


- [Understanding workspace access levels](https://support.terra.bio/hc/en-us/articles/360025851892-Reader-writer-or-owner-Workspace-access-controls-explained) - Terra workspaces have three access levels: READER, WRITER, and OWNER. Each access level represents an expanded set of permissions.

- [Exploring curated example workspaces](https://support.terra.bio/hc/en-us/articles/360028967111-Start-with-curated-sample-workspaces-for-a-variety-of-use-cases) - One of the best ways to get started in AnVIL is to explore curated example workspaces. These are curated workspace templates that span a variety of use cases.  Standardized for completeness and ease of use, they're great as templates or introductions to help reproduce instructive results and learn established methodologies. Also see AnVIL's [featured example workspaces](/learn/getting-started/using-example-workspaces).
